MSD string sort To implement a general-purpose string sort, where
strings are not necessarily all the same length, we consider the characters
in left-to-right order

We know that strings that start with a should appear
before strings that start with b, and so forth.

The natural way to implement
this idea is a recursive method known as most-significant-digit-first (MSD)
string sort.

We use key-indexed counting to sort the strings according to
their first character, then (recursively) sort the sub arrays corresponding to
each character (excluding the first character, which we know to be the same
for each string in each subarray). Like quicksort, MSD string sort partitions the array into sub arrays that can be sorted independently to complete
the job, but it partitions the array into one subarray for each possible value
of the first character, instead of the two or three partitions in quicksort.

We need to pay particular attention to reaching the ends of strings in MSD string sort

we know this algorithm is
you know
the length of the string is different
that is a more general case we encounter often
but the problem is how we know the string in end and we how to handle it in a consistent way.

！which means after one loop key indexed sort
!we have sorted the elements  and if you do the same operation like LSD will disturb our initial work
!so like group operation
!we need to group according to the previous loop results .
!that is a solution !

ok  so how to do that ??
that is really difficult to solve but !

so how about that

we use the immediately key indexed sort to do the immediately sort
but .

the further sort is not sure for right now
because of the length and character of the elements

so use the divide and conquer problem . why we use this algorithm .
because we find similar problem and we also abstract the part is hard to solve right now .
we actually abstract a lot of further sorting process .
so we have built the solution
in the current stage we do the immediately key indexed sort
and we abstract the further .

but what is the core for the next group operation . I mean . that is the previous counting
and the base condition is . 1 a b same size and do the key indexed sort
                            2 end of the string out of the next group
                            3 the group size is one

                            so

the code
will like that !

f(list,range,charAt) the range will constrain the group


for example

input

1abs
1abs

2abc
2cba

3 8 11 15
0-2 3-7 8-10 11-14